Dog Licensing: providing a means for applicants of a certain municipality to register their dogs online via a public form page.

Prompt: "You’ve been asked by your client, a municipality, to put their dog license application form online. What questions do you ask?"

Response: Below is a troubleshooting tree to handle all expected scenarios that I've come across.

  1) On the Application Form:

    1a) List all of the text-like input fields that need to be recorded. Example: The dog's Date of Birth, the dog's name, the dog's breed, etc.
    1b) List all of the documents that need to be submitted. Example: The dog's Health Papers, The dog's Pedigree, etc.
      1b1) Can these forms be scanned/photographed and then subsequently uploaded?
      1b2) Alternatively, can these forms be identified by a serial number and subsequently mailed in for physical inspection?
      1b3) Can these forms ONLY be mailed in?
    1c) Do forms/agreements need to be downloaded?
      1c1) Do they need to be mailed back with a signature?
      1c2) Can they be uploaded with a signature?
    1d) Are signatures needed?
      1d1) Can they be digital?
        1d1a) Last 5 of SSN in a (hidden) text-like input?
        1d1b) A "cursive" mouse/stylus image-like input?
        1d1c) An agreement tied to a captcha?
      1d2) Must the signature be physical?
        1d2a) Is this signature covered in 1c)?
    1e) Are images needed?
      1e1) Are regulated or orthogonal angles of the dog needed for bureaucratic identification? (alluding to multiple-image upload)
    1f) Are FEES required?
      1f1) Are these fees paid separately?
        1f1a) Are they paid by mail money order/check?
        1f1b) Are they paid earlier/later on at a register?
        1f1c) Will the Municipal Board allow secure Credit Card/Debit Card transactions online with a trusted vendor (PayPal, Stripe, etc.)?

2) On the Application Page:
  
  2a) Is the application form standalone?
    2a1) Is this just a single-page application?
  2b) Is the application a part of a greater document tree (website) pertaining to other Dog Affairs (https://www.townsvilledepartmentofdogs.us/dogregistration)?
    2b1) Are there linking, relevant/pertinent resources (other pages, downloadable documents, contact methods) that should be put onto the page with the form?
  2c) What styling is envisioned, if any?
    2c1) Is there a pre-selected mock-up? CSS/Less/Sass Theme? Wordpress/Drupal Theme?
    2c2) Is there code IN PLACE that can be applied to the form page?
    2c3) Would the Municipal Board be content with basic styling (in the style and spirit of a desktop application)?

3) On the Administration/Deployment of the Page:

  3a) Are you hosted already?
    3a1) Do you own physical servers?
      3a1a) What is the network configuration of these servers?
        3a1a1) Can they be publicly accessed with a password?
        3a1a2) Can they be accessed over VPN with a password?
    3a2) Do you rent rackspace/servers elsewhere?
    3a3) Do you use virtual or cloud hosting (Such as through HostGator, Amazon Web Services, IBM)?
      3a3a) Do you have credentials prepared for me to login and deploy?
      3a3b) Must I contact a Webmaster or Administrator for these credentials?
  3b) Do you require hosting?
    3b1) What approximate traffic is expected to reach the site?
    3b2) Since the online submission only concerns consituents of the municipality, should the zoning of the website just concentrate its resources there?
      3b2a) Have you considered the relatively low cost of boosting the site's availability/searchability/indexability?
    3b3) Can we talk about security considerations?
      3b3a) HTTPS Strict Transport Policy with a certificate, strong AES-256 encryption, heavy keys, to ensure the End-User/Application that they are relatively safe?
      3b3b) Subnet Configuration, Firewalls and avoiding DDOS attacks, Man-in-the-Middle Attacks, Impersonation Attacks, etc.
